# Text-To-Material-Unity
Generate materials from text prompts in Unity. Uses `chatgpt` and `dall-e` models.
 
https://github.com/aniketrajnish/Text-To-Material-Unity/assets/58925008/59d84850-b002-425e-aeda-0a1c67a77153

## Usage
* Download the `.unitypackage` from the [Releases Section](https://github.com/aniketrajnish/Text-To-Material-Unity/releases/tag/v001).
* Create/Login to your OpenAI account and get your API key from [here](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys).
* Import the package in your Unity Project.
* Go to `Project Settings -> T2M -> paste your API key`
* Right click in the Project Window, click on `Create - > T2M` to open the Text-To-Material window.
* Enter the prompt describing the type of material and texture of the material you want to create.
* Choose the model to use, the image size, and the quality (only for `dall-e-3`) for textures.
* Click on Generate. The textures and materials are generated and saved in the `Assets/T2M Materials` folder.

## Note
* `gpt-4` and `dall-e-3` might not be available for all the users.
* The resposne generated by AI can sometimes not be in the proper format that we expect it to be for parsing. In such cases, just click on generate again. It works >90% of the time.

## Contributing
Contributions to the project are welcome. Currently working on:
* Support for URP & HDRP materials.
* Support more texture maps. (Bump map, Normal map, Roughness map etc.)
* Support for materials based on different shaders.
* Better prompts for texture generation, to ensure seamless textures.
* Support for materials based on custom shaders (ig ambitious).
  
## License
MIT License

## Acknowledgement
Thankful to Keijiro Takahashi for his [AI Command Project](https://github.com/keijiro/AICommand).
